'Qatar 2022 on brink of becoming Messi's World Cup'And we'll keep you signed in.Sign in  or  RegisterYou need one to watch live TV on any channel or device, and BBC programmes on iPlayer. It’s the law.  Neil Johnston and Emma SmithAll times stated are UK#bbcfootball, text 81111 (UK only – texts will be charged at your standard message rate), or text your comments via WhatsApp on 03301231826Mark K: Sometimes it’s the people no one imagines anything of who do the things that no one can imagine.France v Morocco (19:00 GMT)From the Souq Waqif marketplace in Doha, Qatar......to back home in Marrakesh, the scene is set for Morocco fans as they prepare for a momentous moment in the African nation's footballing history.France v Morocco (19:00 GMT)Its Footy: Surely everyone has to be behind Morocco? They have done amazing. Don't give up or dive or cheat or whine. Just play football and try their best. Hope they win it.France v Morocco (19:00 GMT)Chris SuttonFormer Premier League winnerMorocco break with great pace and purpose when they counter-attack and I am sure they will get opportunities the same way in this game.I don't see it working to such full effect this time, though, because they might be too stretched to hold out.The best way to describe France is they find a way and that is what I am expecting to happen here too, with Olivier Giroud having another big say in the outcome.France v Morocco (19:00 GMT)FranceKylian Mbappe came into the World Cup having just broken Lionel Messi’s record as the youngest
player to score 40 goals in the Champions League. Still only 23, he became only
the second teenager after Pele to score in a World Cup final in Russia four
years ago.Will he secure a second World Cup winners' medal on Sunday?France v Morocco (19:00 GMT)Dave McManus: We are all Morocco fans now.France v Morocco (19:00 GMT)Chris SuttonFormer Premier League winnerMorocco's plan, to defend deep and spring out on the break, seems simple but it is not easy to execute it as well as they have done against some very accomplished teams.The only goal they have conceded in five games in Qatar is an own goal against Canada in the group stage. They have also faced Croatia, Belgium, Spain and Portugal at this World Cup and none of them have found a way through.My worry is that injuries and fatigue will catch up with them here. Romain Saiss was carried off against Portugal, while there have been doubts over the fitness of fellow defender Nayef Aguerd and key midfielder Sofyan Amrabat.France v Morocco (19:00 GMT)Chris Sutton is not feeling particularly romantic about this one. He's going for a 2-1 France win.France v Morocco (19:00 GMT)Camilla MillsBBC News, CasablancaThis family, in Casablanca, live in a garage next to Wydad
Stadium, where they stock and sell their merchandise to keen football fans. And
they have done for over 40 years. There are flags, tops and caps in and
around household items, including a smoking tajine. And while it's raining
here in Casablanca, little will dampen Bina Mohamed's entrepreneurial
enthusiasm as Morocco gears up to face France. #bbcfootball, text 81111 (UK only – texts will be charged at your standard message rate), or text your comments via WhatsApp on 03301231826AJC123: Morocco have been great. Deservedly beaten Belgium, Spain and Portugal.France v Morocco (Weds, 19:00 GMT)Piers EdwardsBBC Africa SportMorocco coach Walid Regragui already knows what it feels like to win a trophy on Qatari soil and to receive a cup from Fifa president Gianni Infantino, and the big question this week is whether he can achieve both again on Sunday.A suggestion that would have provoked ridicule before the World Cup has become an ever-narrowing possibility after Regragui stunningly steered the Atlas Lions to the last four.Having already won domestic and continental club titles this year, if the 47-year-old is to lead an African and Arab side to a first World Cup final, then he will have to knock out the country where he grew up and played nearly all his club career.Read more from Piers Edwards here.Tweet #bbcfootball, text 81111 (UK only, standard message rates apply)Tony Di Wonderful: Morocco could very well do a Greece 2004 here.France v Morocco (19:00 GMT)MoroccoChanging a manager just
a few months before a major tournament rarely works out for the best.And while
Walid Regragui’s appointment brought positivity, and crucially Hakim
Ziyech, back to the Moroccan team, he did not have very long to stamp his ideas
on the team, or decide on his strongest line-up. after taking charge at the end of August.Which makes Morocco's progress to the semi-finals even more remarkable.France v Morocco (19:00 GMT)Not long to wait now until we know who Argentina play in Sunday's showcase.Kick-off between France and Morocco is just six hours away and the atmosphere is building in Doha.Tweet #bbcfootball, text 81111 (UK only, standard message rates apply)Dean: Bellingham, Gvardiol, Tchouameni and Enzo Fernandez all realising their Football Manager potential at the World Cup this year. Some absolutely excellent displays by some of the world's best young players!Pablo ZabaletaEx-Man City and Argentina defender on BBC Radio 5 LiveAs a player you always want to see a manager from your country - someone who knows the history of the country, the culture and can speak the language.In England, I think you have good managers. Eddie Howe is doing a great job at Newcastle. Steven Gerrard? Why not?Look at Lionel Scaloni in Argentina. He was not experienced at international level or professionally as a coach before [he got the job of as Argentina head coach]. He had only been coaching at under-20s, then they give him the job and has been doing a great job,He won the Copa America and now is into a World Cup final. He has been surrounded by a good group of ex-football players in the coaching staff - Pablo Aimar, Roberto Ayala. They can inspire the players and that is all you need in the national team. It is about inspiring the players and picking the right players for each game.So I think you have good managers in England who, whatever happens with Gareth Southgate, I think they are good enough to get the job.Away from the upcoming semi-final, the fall-out continues from England's elimination - and who might replace Gareth Southgate should he decide to walk away.Here is what Pablo Zabaleta had to say about Southgate's successor, and the debate over whether the England manager has to be English...Richarlison has shown off the transfer for his latest ink on Instagram. It features an image of himself alongside Brazilian icons, Ronaldo and Neymar.The 25-year-old Tottenham forward certainly backs himself and the plans for this tattoo make a big statement. Before Brazil were eliminated by Croatia on penalties in the quarter-final, Richarlison managed three goals in four games, including two contenders for goal of the tournament.The Selecao's current number nine may still have a little while to go yet, however, before the rest of the world regards him alongside Ronaldo - a two-time World Cup winner - and Neymar, his country's second top scorer.France v Morocco (19.00 GMT)Cllr Hamza Taouzzale is not only Lord Mayor of Westminster, he is also originally from Morocco and is exceptionally proud of the nation reaching the World Cup semi-finals for the first time.Speaking to Radio 5Live he says: “In previous years I was happy if
Morocco scored a goal or qualified for the World Cup, but getting to the
semi-finals is a whole different ball game”.Since making their debut in 1986, they had only ever won two World Cup matches - until 2022, in which they have won four in becoming the first African team to reach the semis.Reflecting on Morocco’s performance so far, Cllr Taouzzale says: “What a team
it’s been. Even me as a keen Morocco fan, I’m discovering new players which play
in leagues outside of Europe.“It’s crazy to even be in this position.”France v Morocco (19.00 GMT)Radio 5Live has been speaking to French fans ahead of tonight's semi-finals, with Les Bleus two steps away from a second successive World Cup title.French fan Gael says “tonight is a very
exciting game for Morocco and for France”.He says: “Didier Deschamps is a
very experienced coach and I think he has prepared that team for these types of
big moments”.Someone who Gael thinks could bring France to victory tonight is
Antoine Griezmann - “For me he has been the best player of the French team
so far.“What’s going to be interesting tonight is [Griezmann’s] two best
friends on the same pitch on two different teams with Kylian Mbappe and Hakim
Ziyech.”