Last updated on 13 December 202213 December 2022.From the section Man UtdManchester United manager Erik ten Hag says he has no idea when winger Jadon Sancho will be ready to return to first-team duties.Sancho, 22, made an impressive start to the season - scoring three times before the September international break.But Ten Hag says he saw a marked dip in the player's form and confidence after he was not selected for England's Nations League matches in the autumn."Sometimes there are circumstances with fitness and mood," Ten Hag said."He was not in the right status or fitness state."After an impressive pre-season - during which he scored three times - Sancho was one of United's better performers over the opening weeks of the campaign, including key goals against Liverpool and Leicester.However, he was an unused substitute against FC Sheriff and West Ham at the end of October, missed the final four games before the World Cup, and was absent from United's recent two-match tour of Spain as he worked on his own fitness programme.Ten Hag felt it was better for Sancho to work away from the remainder of his squad to concentrate on getting his fitness and mindset right."I have had several talks with Jadon," said Ten Hag, who has made use of a coach he worked with in the Netherlands to assist Sancho."He's on a physical programme and our aim is to get him back as quickly as possible, but I can't give a prognosis of when that will be."Sancho excelled for Borussia Dortmund and England prior to his £73m move to United in 2021.Ten Hag cannot be sure missing out on England selection was a significant factor in his decline, but accepted not making Gareth Southgate's World Cup squad was an inevitable consequence of his dip in performance levels."There's huge competition with England," he said. "Even at the World Cup, every game is difficult to know who to start because there's so much talent in the offensive line. "When you don't show it week by week you can fall out of the squad, which is what happened." "When the league started he played some good games, but after we got a drop of levels," said Ten Hag. "Sometimes you don't know why or what is causing it."Most of the time it comes slowly. First you observe but the stats back it up. In the start of the season he had goals and assists but his key moments and key actions became less and less. "It's a combination of physical but also mental. We're trying to research and get him back." Ahead of his last chance at World Cup glory, get to know the real person behind the goalsRobin and Strike are hunting for a criminal who goes back a long way...Panorama hits the road to find out what is going on between drivers and cyclists BBC Sport charts Morocco's journey to becoming the first African nation to reach the World Cup semi-finals as they prepare to take on France in the last four.Watch all of France's goals from the 2022 World Cup in Qatar as they prepare to take on Morocco in the semi-finals.Lionel Messi and Julian Alvarez shine for Argentina as they beat Croatia 3-0 to reach the World Cup final.      Everything you need to know to make sure you never miss a moment.The latest rumours and stories from around the world of football.Analysis and opinion from our chief football writer.How to get into football - the most popular sport in the world, with clubs and facilities throughout the UK.