Last updated on 13 December 202213 December 2022.From the section World Cupcomments242Lionel Messi was dubbed the greatest player of all time as he led Argentina into the World Cup final - and surely one last chance to win the game's most famous trophy before he retires.The 35-year-old seven-time Ballon d'Or winner scored a penalty and set up one of Julian Alvarez's two goals in Tuesday's 3-0 win over Croatia.The fact he has never won a World Cup - unlike compatriot Diego Maradona or Brazil's Pele - has sometimes counted against him in debates about the best of all time, but he has a chance to remedy that in Sunday's final against France or Morocco.This was Messi's 1,002nd game of senior football, his 791st goal and 340th assist. He won 35 trophies with Barcelona, last season's French title with Paris St-Germain and the 2021 Copa America with Argentina.Former England defender Jamie Carragher tweeted after his Lusail masterclass that Messi is "the best there has ever been".Ex-England captain Alan Shearer, watching the game for BBC Radio 5 Live, said: "Would it put an end to the debate of Maradona or Messi?"We said if Messi wins the World Cup here, it might have to be him. That's been the difference, that has been the splitting point. Maradona has won the World Cup. If Messi were to win it here, my view would change."Robert Green, who played for England at the 2010 World Cup, thinks Messi would swap that accolade for victory on Sunday."If you asked Messi if he wanted to be the best in the world or if he wants that medal, he would want that medal on Sunday," the former goalkeeper said on BBC Radio 5 Live. "One takes care of the other."He would snap your hand off for a World Cup winner's medal now. He has done so much for football."On Sunday, Messi will make his 26th World Cup appearance, an all-time record, beating German Lothar Matthaus' old mark.He is Argentina's top scorer at World Cups with 11 goals, and is the only player to register an assist in five. Messi is also the only player to score in the World Cup in his teens, 20s and 30s.external-linkMessi's Argentina lost the 2014 final to Germany - but he was given the Golden Ball for the best player of the tournament.On Sunday, he could complete the clean sweep of World Cup winner, Golden Ball and Golden Boot. He overtook Paris St-Germain team-mate Kylian Mbappe in the top scorer race by virtue of more assists, with both on five goals.Argentina manager Lionel Scaloni said "I don't have any doubt" about whether Messi is the greatest ever."I have been saying that for a long time. I am honoured to be able to see him train. There is nothing left to say about Messi - it is a privilege to have him in this squad," the former West Ham United defender said.Messi was stretching his hamstring at times earlier in the game - and lacks the pace he once had - but he went on a remarkable solo run to set up Alvarez's second goal."Argentina are in the final because of Messi," Shearer added. "Everyone looks to him. He doesn't work as hard as he once did, and he might not be as quick as he once was all those years ago."But he has still got that magic, that ability to twist and turn and run with the ball and go past those defenders with ease. He can make the very best look ridiculously average at times."Pablo Zabaleta, Messi's former Argentina team-mate, told BBC TV: "Messi has been incredible. That turn, he is so sharp in those spaces. When he is inside the box you don't want to touch him. It was a great pass for an Alvarez tap-in. It was an unbelievable goal."Every time Messi got on the ball it seemed like something would happen again."And Messi himself said: "I am enjoying this a lot. I am feeling really good, I feel strong enough to face every match. I feel very happy in this World Cup. I am able to help the squad."On Instagram, Messi's former Barcelona team-mate Luis Suarez wrote: "You never get tired of proving you are the best in the world."Croatia manager Zlatko Dalic, whose side lost to France in the 2018 final, knew his side had been beaten by a great."Nothing much needs to be said about Messi," he said. "The best player in the world and very good and very dangerous today. It is the true Messi we expected to see."If you are viewing this page on the BBC News app please click here to vote.Get the latest results and goal notifications for any team at the Fifa World Cup by downloading the BBC Sport app: Appleexternal-link - Androidexternal-link - Amazonexternal-linkGet your daily dose of Fifa World Cup reaction, debate & analysis with World Cup Daily on BBC SoundsAhead of his last chance at World Cup glory, get to know the real person behind the goalsRobin and Strike are hunting for a criminal who goes back a long way...Panorama hits the road to find out what is going on between drivers and cyclists    BBC Sport charts Morocco's journey to becoming the first African nation to reach the World Cup semi-finals as they prepare to take on France in the last four.Watch all of France's goals from the 2022 World Cup in Qatar as they prepare to take on Morocco in the semi-finals.Lionel Messi and Julian Alvarez shine for Argentina as they beat Croatia 3-0 to reach the World Cup final.Watch as fans in Buenos Aires celebrate Argentina beating Croatia 3-0 to reach their sixth World Cup final.      Get latest scores and headlines sent straight to your phone, sign-up to our newsletter and learn where to find us on online.The latest rumours and stories from around the world of football.Analysis and opinion from our chief football writer.How to get into football - the most popular sport in the world, with clubs and facilities throughout the UK.