Frigid, Arctic air will start to lose its grip this weekend, but until then there will be further wintry showers especially across Scotland. In fact, Scotland could see a lengthier period of sleet and snow on Friday, and then more widespread snow is possible on Sunday for a short time before turning to rain as milder air comes in.Wet and windy weather will continue early next week, then temperatures will dip again. The current levels of cold are not expected to return, but by Wednesday there will be chillier northwesterly winds setting in, bringing wintry showers, especially across Scotland.The end of next week and the following week should have bands of rain moving across the UK, along with occasional hill-snow in northern areas. There's currently low confidence in the forecast for New Year with model guidance diverging. The most likely scenario is high pressure building from Greenland to Scandinavia, risking a return to colder conditions with below-average temperatures.It will stay very cold through to Friday with hard frosts and the risk of freezing fog.On Wednesday, any lingering rain, sleet and inland snow in southwest England and near the south coast will peter out, and many areas will see some sunshine. However, there will still be wintry showers towards windward coasts, and more widespread sleet and snow showers across Scotland as a low pressure trough moves southwards, accompanied by strong winds in northern Scotland.Thursday will be a similar day, with northern Scotland seeing the most frequent sleet and snow showers, although winds will ease. Elsewhere, we'll see a few wintry showers towards exposed coastal areas.On Friday, a weak ridge of high pressure will drift eastwards across England and Wales, causing winds to back more west to south-westerly - the first hint of an approaching change in our weather type.However, a small low pressure system and associated front will move across Scotland from the west. This will bring more widespread outbreaks of rain, sleet and inland snow, more especially to the north of Northern Ireland and to central parts of Scotland, with scattered snow showers farther north and across western and northern parts of England and Wales. Eastern areas will be largely dry.On Saturday, wintry showers will become mostly confined to Scotland. Northern Ireland, western England, and Wales will have the odd shower, mainly in the west. There will be plenty of sunshine elsewhere and It will be a little less cold but it will be Sunday before we really see the milder transition developing.A deep Atlantic low-pressure system will approach the UK, with frontal precipitation moving eastwards as winds strengthen while backing southwest to southerly. This will most likely begin as snow, with an additional risk of freezing rain but should turn to rain within hours as milder air washes across the UK.  There is still some uncertainty around the extent and duration of this snow.Next week starts with further bands of rain moving across the UK, some heavy and perhaps thundery. After the passage of a cold front there will be a quick shot of colder air on Tuesday and Wednesday as winds veer northwesterly. This will bring snow showers and rather strong winds to Scotland, especially in the north. A few wintry showers will blow across windward coasts elsewhere but inland areas should become largely dry with some sunshine.On Thursday, there will most likely be a high pressure ridge drifting east across the UK before moving south-east and settling over mainland Europe. That should put at least the southern half of the UK under a milder regime for the rest of the week, with temperatures rising near or a little above average.Periodic bands of rain will move through the UK, and in between these some colder air will be dragged intermittently across the north, bringing wintry showers back, especially to Scotland, where temperatures are more likely to average a little below normal.Those further south looking for Christmas Day snow might be unlucky this year. However, there is a lot of uncertainty for the end of the week, with one forecasting model positioning high pressure closer to the UK and pulling much colder air across. Although this is not the evolution we are currently favouring, it could bring a chance of flurries elsewhere.A similar pattern looks likely to continue between Christmas and New Year, although uncertainty abounds.It's most likely that there will be further bouts of rain with temperatures near or slightly above average, at least in the southern UK.  Showery interludes will be chillier, particularly in the north with intermittent wintry showers, especially for Scotland. However, details will very much rely on the track of low pressure systems from the Atlantic, and how far north they travel. It is possible that they will start to move further south, allowing colder air to start coming across more of the UK.We also still have the risk of that much colder scenario from the previous week lingering, although that is an outside chance.Heading into early 2023, it is a little more likely that the pattern will change to a colder regime but longer-range models are divergent. There are hints of high pressure building from Greenland to Scandinavia and into eastern Europe, with low pressure tracks tending to move towards west, southwest and central Europe. Exact positioning will dictate the air mass across the UK, but this could bring easterly flows, with colder air returning widely.An alternative scenario keeps high pressure weaker in early January, with low pressure systems continuing to move across the UK. This would bring  a milder and wetter outcome.If we look at analogues of past years with similar atmospheric drivers, these tend to favour high pressure from Greenland to Scandinavia overall, with low pressure over continental Europe. These guide us towards the colder pattern, but there are some conflicting signals so they do not increase confidence by much.Will weather models come into better agreement for the Christmas and New Year period?BBC Weather in association with MeteoGroupAll times are GMT (Europe/London, GMT +0000) unless otherwise stated.