How much are prices rising for you? Try our calculatorWho will get a Cold Weather Payment this week?The best way to de-ice a car and other winter tipsFive ways to spend and waste less this ChristmasWhat help can I get with home insulation?'I want to be prepared for any eventuality' Video, 00:01:59'I want to be prepared for any eventuality'Promise to son drives plumber who works for freeChildcare fees mean mum makes £2 on overtime shift'If I buy a bus ticket I can't eat for two days'Mum-of-seven starts baby bank and helps hundreds. Video, 00:02:11Mum-of-seven starts baby bank and helps hundreds'Be honest': How to talk to kids about a budget ChristmasFive tips for cutting energy costs this winterHow are other countries tackling energy bills?Try our family £1 recipe meal planFive hacks to help save money on your food shopBuy now, pay later schemes: What you need to know. Video, 00:01:00Buy now, pay later schemes: What you need to knowInflation: Key answers in 90 seconds. Video, 00:01:25Inflation: Key answers in 90 secondsFour discounts and payments that could help you. Video, 00:01:00Four discounts and payments that could help youWhat you can do about a rent increase. Video, 00:01:00What you can do about a rent increaseKatie Riley uses the warm hub for the social aspect for herself and her two sons, including Oscar (pictured)Users of warm bank have said it offers more than just heating in the freezing winter temperatures.One warm hub is open for five days a week between 09:00 and 15:00 GMT in the Haddenham Sports & Social Club in Cambridgeshire.It offers activities, hot drinks, as well as a free space for people to keep warm and has about 100 people through the doors each week.People using the space have been telling the Local Democracy Reporting Service what they make of the hub and why they are there. 
The warm hub at Haddenham Sports & Social Club is open five days a weekKatie Riley visits the warm bank with her two sons, Dylan, three, and six-months-old Oscar."It is just a lovely place to come, it is a nice big space, it is nice to get out the house and away from the TV," she says."We can get in the habit of putting it on first thing and it is tricky to turn off, whereas this is somewhere to go."We are trying to use the car bit less, so having somewhere in the village we can walk to and we do not have to spend a lot of money."We were here last week and there were about five kids Dylan’s age tearing back and forth, running about with each other, having a really good time."Friends Sandra Scott (left) and Patricia Cox (right) meet at the warm hub in the village, near ElySandra Scott and Patricia Cox meet up at the warm bank to have a chat and do some knitting using patterns collected by volunteers."My husband is always doing stuff, so on a Friday morning we just come out to knit and have a chat," Ms Scott says."My husband is at home so will have the heating on; we are never cold at home."Ms Cox says: "We are lucky to have it five days a week, other places may only have it once or twice a week. "It is a fantastic amenity, especially this time of year when it is cold outside. "It is fantastic here and we should use it, or we could lose it."Robin Gildersleeve, lead volunteer at the Haddenham Warm Hub on Chewells Lane, says the warm bank had had around 800 people visit since opening.He says: "We are really pleased, we are reaching out and making the point that this place is for everyone to use as a warm space and a social space as well, there are people just coming here for the company."Find BBC News: East of England on Facebook, external, Instagram, external and Twitter, external. If you have a story for us, email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk© 2022 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.