There are growing concerns over the spread of Covid in China following the recent easing of strict lockdown measures.Hospitals and medical facilities have come under increasing strain as those who've tested positive at home seek medical support. In the week ending 11 December, official figures showed a fall in the total number of new infections across the country after a peak the previous week. This decline in reported cases may however be explained by significant changes in the way testing for Covid-19 is being carried out.China has stopped mass testing and is only recording positive cases at hospitals and fever clinics where the patient has Covid symptoms.Asymptomatic cases and positive results from home-testing kits are not recorded in the data.The number of Covid cases, however, is putting severe pressure on the health system.  Temporary health centres are being set up along with intensive care facilities across the country.  It's been reported that in Shanghai alone, an extra 230,000 hospital beds have been made available. There have also been reports of high demand for fever remedies at pharmacies.Before the recent relaxation of restrictions, China had one of the toughest anti-Covid regimes in the world - known as its zero-Covid policy. The measures included:This meant tens of millions of people were living under some kind of lockdown.Some local authorities took extreme measures, such as forcing workers to sleep inside factories so they could work while quarantined.In early November, workers at the Foxconn factory in Zhengzhou, which makes iPhones, staged a mass breakout because of fears they would be shut inside.  In August, shoppers in an Ikea store in Shanghai forced their way out through the doors to escape being locked down inside it.       Following the protests against Covid lockdowns across the country - including direct criticism of President Xi Jinping and the Chinese Communist Party - the government announced an easing of the measures.These include:Earlier, the government reduced isolation from 10 to eight days - five days at an isolation centre, plus three at home. China is also now allowing international arrivals for the first time since March 2022. Overall, China says more than 90% of the population has been fully vaccinated. However, less than half of people aged 80 and over have received three doses of vaccine. The vaccination rate back in April among this age group was much lower - less than 20%.  The authorities now say they require local health services to "strengthen immunization of the whole population, particularly the elderly".There are doubts over whether the main vaccines used in China - Sinovac and Sinopharm - are effective against Omicron, the most widespread strain.Western countries have offered China more effective vaccines, but China has refused to use them widely.The government has given no official explanation. However, national pride may be a factor according to Dr Yu Jie, Senior Research Fellow on China at the international affairs think tank Chatham House:"I think it's Xi Jinping really thinking of things in terms of economic self-reliance - that need to have China produce and use its own vaccine, rather than import it from somewhere."The Chinese government called its now dismantled policy "dynamic zero" - taking action wherever Covid flares up in order to eradicate it. The government said this saves lives, because uncontrolled outbreaks would put many vulnerable people at risk, including the elderly.Strict lockdowns mean China's death toll had stayed low ever since the start of the pandemic - the official figure is just over 5,200.This is equal to only three Covid deaths in every million in China, compared with 3,000 per million in the US and 2,400 per million in the UK.In recent months, lockdowns have taken place in several cities.These include Shenzhen, a city of 17.5 million and technology hub, and Shanghai, a city of 26 million which is a manufacturing, trade and financial hub.Lockdowns have led to factories and ports being shut for long periods.They have also affected work with foreign companies. It means that China's economy has grown by only 3.9% over the past year, compared with its target of 5.5% for 2022.Unemployment is rising, especially amongst young people, and the property market is weakening. China's lockdown measures are also affecting businesses and consumers in the rest of the world, who have come to rely on China for supplies of goods.A lockdown at the Foxconn plant in Zhengzhou hit the production of iPhones, leading to fears of a worldwide shortage.Factory closures have also led to fears of a shortage of toys ahead of Christmas.Additional reporting by Jeremy Howell.The man who led Morocco to brink of World Cup historyUS governor commutes all of state's death sentencesMorocco fans' heartbreak as Doha flights cancelledHow a British special forces raid went fatally wrongCovid wave batters China's overstretched hospitalsNuclear fusion breakthrough – what is it and how does it work?Audio drama - gaming's next frontier?Using my family's dark history to teach about vaccinesTwitter Files spark debate about ‘blacklisting’The silent struggles of ADHD workersUkraine’s missile graveyard 'is evidence against Russia’ VideoUkraine’s missile graveyard 'is evidence against Russia’Ten years after Sandy Hook, school gun deaths still riseThe French breakfast you don't knowThe rise of the remote helicopter bossThe underwater sounds that can kill© 2022 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.