This video can not be playedPentagon Papers whistle-blower Daniel Ellsberg has told BBC News he was the secret "back-up" for the Wikileaks documents leak, in case something happened to Julian Assange.This is the first time Mr Ellsberg, who exposed the extent of US involvement in the Vietnam War, has revealed this information."I had possession of all the Chelsea Manning information before it came out in the press," Mr Ellsberg told BBC Hardtalk's Stephen Sackur. Mr Assange's Wikileaks organisation published more than 700,000 confidential documents, videos and diplomatic cables, provided by the US Army intelligence analyst Chelsea Manning,  in 2010.Mr Ellsberg said Mr Assange "could rely on me to find some way to get it [the information] out".The former US military analyst's 1971 Pentagon Papers leak led to him being dubbed "the most dangerous man in America" by then-US Secretary of State Henry Kissinger.Mr Ellsberg‘s leak to the New York Times led to a Supreme Court case, as the Richard Nixon administration tried to block the publication. The government lost that case and the publication of the documents by the New York Times and other news organisations resumed.Watch the full interview on Monday 5 December on BBC World News and the BBC News Channel.I was Wikileaks' back-up in case something happened to Assange. Video, 00:01:47I was Wikileaks' back-up in case something happened to AssangeUp Next. Buildings damaged in Russian strikes on Kyiv. Video, 00:00:29Buildings damaged in Russian strikes on KyivWhy women are burning themselves in Iraqi Kurdistan. Video, 00:03:08Why women are burning themselves in Iraqi Kurdistan'I want to be prepared for any eventuality' Video, 00:01:59'I want to be prepared for any eventuality'Long queue of migrants seen at US-Mexico border. Video, 00:00:45Long queue of migrants seen at US-Mexico borderBuy now, pay later schemes: What you need to know. Video, 00:01:00Buy now, pay later schemes: What you need to knowDrivers crash in Gloucestershire heavy snow. Video, 00:01:21Drivers crash in Gloucestershire heavy snowOne-minute World News. Video, 00:01:02One-minute World NewsOfficer tried to punch through ice to get boys - police. Video, 00:00:52Officer tried to punch through ice to get boys - police'Major' emergency services operation at Solihull. Video, 00:00:42'Major' emergency services operation at SolihullEngland fans despair as World Cup dream ends. Video, 00:00:57England fans despair as World Cup dream ends© 2022 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.