A drawing by a Glasgow schoolgirl which calls for action on climate change has been selected for the first minister's official Christmas card. Nine-year-old Evita Ye's design features a colourful snow globe and the words: "The future is in our hands". It reflects campaigning the children at Sunnyside Primary in Craigend have been doing on the climate crisis. Nicola Sturgeon unveiled the design at Sunnyside, where she met P5 pupil Evita to congratulate her. The children were tasked with creating a festive design that centres around the school's campaigning for climate action.Sunnyside has created and run many successful climate campaigns and recently started the Running Out of Time relay. The baton made its way through 18 countries on a 4,800 mile journey before Ms Sturgeon welcomed the baton to COP27 in Egypt last month. Speaking at the school, Nicola Sturgeon said: "I'd like to congratulate Evita and all the pupils at Sunnyside for their striking and creative designs."Climate change is already having a massive impact around the world and if we don't take the right action, things will only get worse."I've been hugely impressed to hear about the actions pupils at Sunnyside have been taking, and I want to thank each and every one of them for getting involved - with such enthusiasm - in the most important issue facing our world."She said the school was the natural choice to design her card and that she was pleased to be able to help spread their calls for unified action.Evita joins prestigious company. Previous designs for the cards were by singer Annie Lennox and photographer Harry Benson.The card will be sent to everyone on the Scottish leader's list.The man who led Morocco to brink of World Cup historyUS governor commutes all of state's death sentencesMorocco fans' heartbreak as Doha flights cancelledHow a British special forces raid went fatally wrongCovid wave batters China's overstretched hospitalsNuclear fusion breakthrough – what is it and how does it work?Audio drama - gaming's next frontier?Using my family's dark history to teach about vaccinesTwitter Files spark debate about ‘blacklisting’The silent struggles of ADHD workersUkraine’s missile graveyard 'is evidence against Russia’ VideoUkraine’s missile graveyard 'is evidence against Russia’Ten years after Sandy Hook, school gun deaths still riseThe French breakfast you don't knowThe rise of the remote helicopter bossThe underwater sounds that can kill© 2022 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.