The UK suffered its chilliest night in almost two years on Monday night and there's no sign of the cold snap easing yet. There's also no sign of a thaw in the row between workers and companies.Countrywide disruption, which started on Tuesday with the 48-hour rail strike, goes up a notch on Wednesday when postal workers stage a national walk out as well.Only one in five trains is set to run. No Christmas cards will be delivered.So has everyone had enough of this disruption? Well, not necessarily. The latest poll by Savanta Comres suggests a very small drop in overall public support - 61% backed the strikes at the end of October and 32% opposed them, while the poll last weekend shows 60% supporting the strikes and 35% against. When you break down the figures into specific jobs, nurses have more public support than those working on the railways.This is my latest briefing for you - keeping you up to date with useful information about how the latest wave of strikes might affect your daily life. So what will Wednesday look like?Postal workers will strike again on Wednesday and Thursday - only a few days after they last walked out.Royal Mail claims the postal workers' support for the strikes is weakening - and that 11,000 crossed the picket line this month, compared with 3,000 in August. But the Communication Workers Union (CWU)  is having none of it - it says it's all spin and plans more strike action in January.  Delivering our Christmas pressies on time is, admits Royal Mail "challenging". Hardly surprising when you consider the company is relying on 11,000 managers and agency workers to fill in for more than 100,000 striking posties.On strike days:The CWU also plans industrial action on 23 and 24 December.The final suggested dates for sending Christmas post have been brought forward:Tuesday saw widespread disruption and significantly reduced train services across England, Wales and Scotland - and Wednesday is likely to be the same.The RMT union is on strike until 23:59 on Wednesday.The Transport Secretary Mark Harper says the tide of public opinion is turning against the strike. Is that true? The Savanta Comres poll suggests a small drop in public support since the end of October. Then it showed 50% in support of, and 29% opposed, to strike action. The updated survey, from last weekend, showed 47% in support versus 34% opposed. You are advised to avoid taking trains, but if you must travel:On Thursday, timetables will be closer to normal, but early morning services are likely to be disrupted as trains and staff may be in the wrong place. And then, on Friday, it starts all over again. The RMT is due to walk out for 48 hours until the end of Saturday. The union is also planning further action over Christmas and in the New Year.Watch Make Sense of Strikes on iPlayer and find out more about why people are striking and whether industrial action works.Civil servants in the Public and Commercial Services Union (PCS) - including driving examiners - are striking most days now until early January. But the industrial action is regional - with different areas affected each week. This week, until Sunday 18 December, the walk out is in north-east England and Scotland. Next week, it moves to north-west England and Yorkshire and the Humber.Check the government website for full details.Some vehicle testing and enforcement services might also be unavailable.We will have another briefing for you from teatime on Wednesday - looking ahead to Thursday's disruption. Nurses in England, Wales and Northern Ireland are set to strike that day over pay. The walkout will involve Royal College of Nursing (RCN) members in more than half of hospitals and community teams. Under trade union laws, life-preserving care has to be provided - so all nursing staff would be expected to work in services such as intensive and emergency care.Check out our a full rundown of all the December and January strikes.Follow Zoe Conway on TwitterHow are you affected by the strikes? Are you taking part in strike action? You can email: haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways:If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any submission. US governor commutes all of state's death sentencesThe man who led Morocco to brink of World Cup historyMorocco fans' heartbreak as Doha flights cancelledHow a British special forces raid went fatally wrongCovid wave batters China's overstretched hospitalsNuclear fusion breakthrough – what is it and how does it work?Audio drama - gaming's next frontier?Using my family's dark history to teach about vaccinesTwitter Files spark debate about ‘blacklisting’The silent struggles of ADHD workersUkraine’s missile graveyard 'is evidence against Russia’ VideoUkraine’s missile graveyard 'is evidence against Russia’Ten years after Sandy Hook, school gun deaths still riseThe French breakfast you don't knowThe rise of the remote helicopter bossThe underwater sounds that can kill© 2022 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.