The rate at which prices are rising has dropped back slightly, but inflation remains near a 40-year high.In response, the Bank of England has already increased interest rates by 0.75 percentage points to 3%, and may decide a further rise is necessary. Inflation is the increase in the price of something over time. For example, if a bottle of milk costs £1 and it goes up to £1.05 a year later, then annual milk inflation is 5%. To come up with an inflation figure, the Office for National Statistics (ONS) keeps track of the prices of hundreds of everyday items. This is known as the "basket of goods".The basket is constantly updated. Tinned beans and sports bras were added in 2022, reflecting growing interest in plant-based diets and exercise.Each month's inflation figure shows how much these prices have risen since the same date last year. You can calculate inflation in a number of different ways, but the main measure is the Consumer Prices Index (CPI).  The latest data shows that CPI was 10.7% in November, down from 11.1% in October. The soaring cost of energy has been a key reason why things are getting more expensive. Oil and gas prices increased because energy was in greater demand as life got back to normal after Covid. At the same time, the war in Ukraine meant less was available from Russia, putting further pressure on prices.The war in Ukraine also led to food prices going up, by reducing the amount of grain available.Annual food inflation hit 16.5% in November, the ONS said, the highest rate for 45 years, and up from 16.4% in October.Your device may not support this visualisationPay increases for many people aren't keeping up with rising prices. That's despite wages increasing by their fastest rate in more than 20 years.According to official figures, average wages, not including bonuses, rose by 6.1% in the three months to October 2022, compared with the same period in 2021.But overall, once inflation is taken into account, average pay actually fell.There was also a big gap between wages for people working in the private sector, which increased by 6.6%, and those in the public sector, which were up 2.7%.Unions say wages should reflect the cost of living and many union members are striking over pay. However, the government argues big pay rises could push inflation even higher because companies might increase prices to cover higher wages.The Bank of England has a target to keep inflation at 2%, but current price increases are about five times that. Its traditional response to rising inflation is to raise interest rates. This can encourage people to save, but means some people with mortgages see their monthly payments go up.Putting up interest rates also makes borrowing more expensive and - it is hoped - means people have less money to spend. As a result, they are likely to buy fewer things, slowing price rises.In November, the Bank increased rates by 0.75 percentage point to 3%, the highest level since 2008, when the UK banking system faced collapse.Its next interest rate decision will be on 15 December.But when inflation is caused by things like rising energy prices worldwide, there is a limit as to how effective UK interest rate rises can be in slowing inflation. Lower inflation does not mean prices will go down. It just means they stop rising as quickly.The Bank previously said it expects inflation to peak at 11%, but this figure has now been breached. It then thinks inflation will slow in 2023, falling to around 5% by the end of the year. By 2024, the Bank projects it will have fallen to 1.4%.But with continuing uncertainty over energy prices and the government's tax and spending plans, it is hard to predict what will happen.Other countries are also experiencing a cost of living squeeze.Many of the reasons are the same - increased energy costs, shortages of goods and materials and the fallout from Covid.The annual inflation rate for countries which use the euro was 9.9% in September, mainly because of energy costs.In the US, prices rose by 7.1% over the 12 months to the end of November - down from 7.7% in October.US governor commutes all of state's death sentencesThe man who led Morocco to brink of World Cup historyMorocco fans' heartbreak as Doha flights cancelledHow a British special forces raid went fatally wrongCovid wave batters China's overstretched hospitalsNuclear fusion breakthrough – what is it and how does it work?Audio drama - gaming's next frontier?Using my family's dark history to teach about vaccinesTwitter Files spark debate about ‘blacklisting’The silent struggles of ADHD workersUkraine’s missile graveyard 'is evidence against Russia’ VideoUkraine’s missile graveyard 'is evidence against Russia’Ten years after Sandy Hook, school gun deaths still riseThe French breakfast you don't knowThe rise of the remote helicopter bossThe underwater sounds that can kill© 2022 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.