Snow, ice and freezing fog have caused delays and cancellations to flights at some of the UK's biggest airports.In addition, strike action by airport border staff over the Christmas period is likely to cause disruption, and passengers have been told to expect delays and cancellations.So what are your rights?If your flight is covered under UK law, your airline must let you choose between either getting a refund or an alternative flight, regardless of how far in advance the cancellation was made. You can get your money back for any part of the ticket you have not used. So if you booked a return flight and the outbound leg is cancelled, you can get the full cost of the return ticket refunded. If you still want to travel, your airline must find you an alternative flight. If another airline is flying to your destination significantly sooner, or there are other suitable modes of transport available, then you have a right to be booked onto that alternative transport instead. If you are stuck abroad or at the airport because of a flight cancellation, airlines must also provide you with other assistance until you are able to fly to your destination. This includes: If your airline is unable to arrange assistance, you have the right to organise this yourself and claim back the cost later. In this case, the Civil Aviation Authority advises people to keep receipts and not spend more than necessary. You are entitled to the same assistance if your flight is delayed by more than two hours. You may also be able to claim compensation if your flight arrives at its destination more than three hours late. Again, the amount is based on how far you are flying. If you are delayed by more than five hours and no longer want to travel, you can get a full refund.Disruption caused by things like extreme weather, airport or air traffic control employee strikes or other "extraordinary circumstances" are not eligible for extra compensation.However, in other circumstances - which are the airline's fault - you have a number of rights under UK law if you are flying from a UK airport on any airline, arriving at a UK airport on an EU or UK airline, or arriving at an airport in the EU on a UK airline. What you are entitled to depends on what caused the cancellation and how much notice you were given. If your flight is cancelled with less than two weeks' notice, you may be able to claim compensation based on the timings of the alternative flight you are offered.The amount you are entitled to also depends on how far you were travelling. For example: If you booked a package holiday with a company that is an Abta member and your flight is cancelled, you are entitled to a suitable alternative flight or a full refund. Will my summer holiday flights be cancelled?Gatwick cuts summer flights after staff shortagesDon't expect great summer experience, warns airport bossRyanair boss wants post-Brexit immigration rethinkUS governor commutes all of state's death sentencesThe man who led Morocco to brink of World Cup historyMorocco fans' heartbreak as Doha flights cancelledHow a British special forces raid went fatally wrongCovid wave batters China's overstretched hospitalsNuclear fusion breakthrough – what is it and how does it work?Audio drama - gaming's next frontier?Using my family's dark history to teach about vaccinesTwitter Files spark debate about ‘blacklisting’The silent struggles of ADHD workersUkraine’s missile graveyard 'is evidence against Russia’ VideoUkraine’s missile graveyard 'is evidence against Russia’Ten years after Sandy Hook, school gun deaths still riseThe French breakfast you don't knowThe rise of the remote helicopter bossThe underwater sounds that can kill© 2022 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.