Last updated on 13 December 202213 December 2022.From the section World Cupcomments2448A dazzling performance from Lionel Messi led Argentina to their sixth World Cup final with victory over Croatia at Lusail Stadium.Messi now gets one last chance to win the piece of silverware that has eluded him in his trophy-laden career, but Manchester City's 22-year-old striker Julian Alvarez also shone as Argentina ensured they will return here on Sunday to face either France or Morocco.Messi looked to be struggling with a hamstring problem early on but Argentina's little genius recovered enough to break the deadlock from the penalty spot after 34 minutes following Croatia goalkeeper Dominik Livakovic's foul on the marauding Alvarez. Alvarez doubled Argentina's lead five minutes later when he took Messi's header just inside Croatia territory and embarked on a slaloming run, aided by fortunate bounces off Josip Juranovic and Borna Sosa, before beating Livakovic.There was no fortune involved in a brilliant third after the break as Messi mesmerised Croatia's excellent defender Josko Gvardiol on the byeline before playing in Alvarez for the finish. Messi will now have the opportunity to make amends for the bitter disappointment of losing the 2014 World Cup final to Germany in Rio's iconic Maracana. When Messi stretched and clutched the top of his left hamstring 19 minutes into this World Cup semi-final, there was a fear the dream for Argentina and their iconic number 10 might have the nightmare ending.Instead, Messi recovered after a spell at walking pace to inspire Argentina as they go in search of a third triumph in the tournament following victories in 1978 and 1986. And what a far cry it was from when Argentina were the victims of what is still the biggest shock of this World Cup in Qatar when they lost their opening game 2-1 to Saudi Arabia, despite Messi putting one of the pre-tournament favourites in front. It was in 1990 that Argentina were stunned in similar fashion by Cameroon in their first game and went on to reach the final, losing 1-0 to West Germany. Now they have the chance to go one better as the World Cup reaches its climax. And Messi can finally claim the crown in his final tournament. Argentina used this meeting with the stubborn, resilient and talented 2018 finalists Croatia to produce their most convincing performance of this World Cup, suggesting Lionel Scaloni's side are hitting their peak at the perfect time. Messi, inevitably, was at the heart of it all and involved in every goal, but Alvarez has shown in Qatar that he has, barring accidents, a wonderful career ahead of him. Much has been made of Manchester City's big spending over the years, but what a coup it was to sign Alvarez from River Plate for the bargain price of £14.1m.Croatia were undone, like so many before them, by the brilliance of Messi - as well as his young partner Alvarez - after making a confident and composed start to this World Cup semi-final.Their defence was exposed in uncharacteristic fashion for Argentina's first two goals and there was little even their outstanding young defender Gvardiol could do about Messi's twisting run that set up the third. Croatia, however, have had an outstanding tournament once more as the country with a population of only four million followed up their appearance in the final in Russia in 2018 with a place in the last four in Qatar.If Argentina have Messi, then Croatia have their own master footballer in Luka Modric and he received warm applause from all parts of Lusail Stadium when he was substituted with nine minutes left. He, like Messi, had his sights set on a World Cup triumph after experiencing the same pain of final defeat, but it was not to be. Croatia coach Zlatko Dalic and his players can be proud of their efforts, despite being well beaten here, and in 20-year-old RB Leipzig defender Gvardiol they have unearthed one of the break-out stars of this World Cup who will serve them well for many years and is already a serious target for Europe's elite clubs.Player of the matchMessiLionel Messi8.468.417.696.956.816.806.746.736.696.666.546.306.216.035.905.887.216.425.945.925.815.805.635.625.505.495.425.335.315.305.155.05Formation  4-4-2Formation  4-3-3Match ends, Argentina 3, Croatia 0.Second Half ends, Argentina 3, Croatia 0.Attempt missed. Dejan Lovren (Croatia) left footed shot from outside the box is just a bit too high. Assisted by Mislav Orsic.Attempt missed. Nikola Vlasic (Croatia) left footed shot from the right side of the box is high and wide to the left. Assisted by Mateo Kovacic.Corner,  Croatia. Conceded by Nicolás Tagliafico.Mateo Kovacic (Croatia) wins a free kick in the defensive half.Foul by Exequiel Palacios (Argentina).Foul by Lovro Majer (Croatia).Ángel Correa (Argentina) wins a free kick on the left wing.Attempt saved. Lovro Majer (Croatia) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom right corner. Assisted by Mateo Kovacic.Dejan Lovren (Croatia) wins a free kick in the defensive half.Foul by Paulo Dybala (Argentina).Substitution, Argentina. Juan Foyth replaces Nahuel Molina.Substitution, Argentina. Ángel Correa replaces Alexis Mac Allister.Corner,  Croatia. Conceded by Nicolás Tagliafico.Attempt missed. Alexis Mac Allister (Argentina) right footed shot from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the right. Assisted by Paulo Dybala following a set piece situation.Foul by Marko Livaja (Croatia).Exequiel Palacios (Argentina) wins a free kick in the attacking half.Substitution, Croatia. Lovro Majer replaces Luka Modric.Attempt missed. Mislav Orsic (Croatia) right footed shot from the left side of the box is close, but misses the top right corner. Assisted by Ivan Perisic.Get the latest results and goal notifications for any team at the Fifa World Cup by downloading the BBC Sport app: Appleexternal-link - Androidexternal-link - Amazonexternal-linkGet your daily dose of Fifa World Cup reaction, debate & analysis with World Cup Daily on BBC SoundsAhead of his last chance at World Cup glory, get to know the real person behind the goalsRobin and Strike are hunting for a criminal who goes back a long way...Panorama hits the road to find out what is going on between drivers and cyclists    BBC Sport charts Morocco's journey to becoming the first African nation to reach the World Cup semi-finals as they prepare to take on France in the last four.Watch all of France's goals from the 2022 World Cup in Qatar as they prepare to take on Morocco in the semi-finals.Lionel Messi and Julian Alvarez shine for Argentina as they beat Croatia 3-0 to reach the World Cup final.Watch as fans in Buenos Aires celebrate Argentina beating Croatia 3-0 to reach their sixth World Cup final.      Get latest scores and headlines sent straight to your phone, sign-up to our newsletter and learn where to find us on online.The latest rumours and stories from around the world of football.Analysis and opinion from our chief football writer.How to get into football - the most popular sport in the world, with clubs and facilities throughout the UK.