Jazzy the dog has been reunited with her owners seven years after running away, a Florida animal shelter said. She was found more than 800 miles (1,280 km) away from her home state of Texas. Jazzy was left behind in a hotel in Florida and could barely walk when Orange County Animal Services discovered her earlier this month. The Orlando animal shelter was shocked when they scanned Jazzy's microchip and tracked down her Texas owners. "We've had reunions that brought together families and pets that were apart for maybe a few years," Bryant Almeida, the public information officer for Orange County Animal Services told the BBC. "For a dog, seven years is practically a lifetime." Jazzy's owners also got "the surprise of a lifetime" when the shelter called them to share the news, Orange County Animal Services wrote in a Facebook post.The owners told the shelter that Jazzy had gotten spooked by fireworks seven years ago when she was five years old. The family searched for her for a long time, and "never gave up hope", the animal shelter said. After hearing the news, Jazzy's owner Kerry got on a plane from Texas to Florida a few days later to be reunited with his furry friend. It was "incredible to watch Jazzy come to life at her owner's voice", the shelter said. "She licked his hand again and again and inched her body as close as she could to him." Jazzy's family and the Florida animal shelter do not know how the dog ended up in Orlando or what her life was like there. She had developed a bad case of arthritis, but was "extremely sweet and gentle", Orange County Animal Services said. But Jazzy's family "never hesitated" to come pick her up, and the 12-year-old dog still remembered them after all those years. The shelter says it is the only open admission one in the county, which means it takes in all animals regardless of health conditions or behavioural issues. The shelter said its staff and volunteers "have to endure heartache and heartbreak every day" as they help owners make tough decisions about terminally ill, elderly and injured dogs."Every now and then though, we get to watch something like this, and it makes every minute worth it," the rescue service said. Jazzy's health is continuing to improve, Mr Almeida said. When she was in Florida, Jazzy could barely stand up, but back in Texas, she is now walking around, and even trying to run.Lost dog 'hands itself in' at police stationMissing dog reunited with owners after 12 yearsAward for founder of drone group to find lost dogsUS governor commutes all of state's death sentencesThe man who led Morocco to brink of World Cup historyMorocco fans' heartbreak as Doha flights cancelledHow a British special forces raid went fatally wrongCovid wave batters China's overstretched hospitalsNuclear fusion breakthrough – what is it and how does it work?Audio drama - gaming's next frontier?Using my family's dark history to teach about vaccinesTwitter Files spark debate about ‘blacklisting’The silent struggles of ADHD workersUkraine’s missile graveyard 'is evidence against Russia’ VideoUkraine’s missile graveyard 'is evidence against Russia’Ten years after Sandy Hook, school gun deaths still riseThe French breakfast you don't knowThe rise of the remote helicopter bossThe underwater sounds that can kill© 2022 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.