Energy bills have been rising for households across Europe as prices have been driven up by worries about gas and oil supplies after Russia's invasion of Ukraine.Individual countries, and the European Union (EU), have announced support schemes for consumers. Here's what they're doing:In 2021, the EU imported 40% of its gas from Russia - so many of its member states are exposed to high energy prices.In response, the EU is introducing: In October, the German parliament approved a "defensive shield" package worth €200bn (£175bn).It includes a cap on gas and electricity prices for households and some businesses from early next year. The government will pay December's monthly gas bill for all households and small-to-medium businesses.In September and October, all taxpayers received a one-off energy payment €300. There has been extra help for people on benefits.Public transport tickets are being subsidised. Germany is trying to cut energy consumption by:A windfall tax on energy companies will be applied from December 2022 to the end of June 2023. In January, the government forced the state-owned energy provider, Électricité de France (EDF), to cap price rises at 4% for a year.It says it will cap rises in gas and electricity at 15% for 2023, as part of a €45bn (£39bn) scheme to support households and businesses. France had already announced a one-off €100 (£84) payment last year to 5.8 million households receiving energy vouchers. The government plans to reduce energy consumption by 10% by:The government is planning a windfall tax on energy companies in the 2023 budget. Italy is expecting to spend about €49.5bn (£42bn). Its measures include a €200 (£169) one-off payment to people earning €35,000 (£29,600) a year or less, and a 20% tax credit for all energy-intensive companies experiencing a 30% rise in prices.The Italian government is also trying to reduce gas consumption by:The government is planning a windfall tax on energy companies in 2023. Since November, electricity and gas prices for households have been capped at January 2022 levels - up to a certain amount of consumption. Any extra use will be charged at market rates.The government is also offering a discount of €190 on energy bills in November and December to all households. There is a one-off energy allowance of €1,300 to those on lower incomes. VAT on energy bills and tax on petrol and diesel have also been cut. The Dutch government is also introducing:It is expecting to spend €15.5bn (£13.5bn) on these measures. The Dutch government is advising households and business to cut consumption, including by turning down heating by 1C. The government is planning a windfall tax on energy companies. Spain has cut VAT on energy bills and reduced tax on electricity. Spain and Portugal have introduced a price cap for gas - which will last for one year and aims to halve gas bills for 40% of customers in the two countries.There is also a one-off payment of €200 euros for people in Spain who earn less than €14,000 a year and are not already receiving benefits.Spain's measures are expected to cost about €27bn (£23bn).The government has an energy-saving plan which includes limiting air conditioning in public buildings and shops in the summer and keeping heating to 19C in the winter.  It wants shops to close their doors when the heating is on and says they should switch off lights after 22:00. The government is introducing a windfall tax on energy companies and banks over the next two years.It has announced plans for an energy price support package for households, worth 26.8bn zlotys (£4.8bn). It incudes freezing energy prices for 2023 at this year's level, with a limit of 2,000 kWh per year for most households. There will be higher thresholds for households with people with disabilities and for families with three or more children. The government has abolished VAT on food, gas and fertilizer and reduced it on petrol, diesel and energy bills. There is also a new mandatory 10% electricity saving for national and local government public administrations.Households that reduce electricity use by 10% in 2023 compared with 2022, will be rewarded with an additional discount. Norway has set a maximum price that households should pay for their energy - anything over this, the government will pay 80% of the bill. A new package of loans and subsidies for businesses was announced in September. This will cover companies that spend more than 3% of revenue on power costs.  The government has also proposed new taxes on onshore wind and hydropower energy, to redistribute some of the huge increase in profits over the past year.The UK government has brought in a cap on the price of a unit of energy until April 2023, which will mean the typical household bill for gas and electricity will be £2,500 a year. This is being extended to April 2024, but typical bills will be capped at £3,000 a year.There will be more support for those on benefits and for pensions households. The government brought in a windfall tax on UK oil and gas firms' profits which is expected to raise £5bn a year. This is being increased and extended. Previously, the government introduced an energy bill discount of £400 for every household with some extra support for people on benefits. The UK government launched a public information campaign on how to save energy in November, which was later than other countries in Europe. Read more from Reality CheckSend us your questionsUS governor commutes all of state's death sentencesThe man who led Morocco to brink of World Cup historyMorocco fans' heartbreak as Doha flights cancelledHow a British special forces raid went fatally wrongCovid wave batters China's overstretched hospitalsNuclear fusion breakthrough – what is it and how does it work?Audio drama - gaming's next frontier?Using my family's dark history to teach about vaccinesTwitter Files spark debate about ‘blacklisting’The silent struggles of ADHD workersUkraine’s missile graveyard 'is evidence against Russia’ VideoUkraine’s missile graveyard 'is evidence against Russia’Ten years after Sandy Hook, school gun deaths still riseThe French breakfast you don't knowThe rise of the remote helicopter bossThe underwater sounds that can kill© 2022 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.