The present borders of Belarus were established during the turmoil of the World War Two.The former Soviet republic was occupied by the Nazis between 1941 and 1944, when it lost 2.2 million people, including almost all of its large Jewish population.Belarus has been ruled with an iron fist since 1994 by President Alexander Lukashenko. Opposition figures are subjected to harsh penalties for organising protests. In 2005, Belarus was listed by the US as Europe's only remaining "outpost of tyranny".In the Soviet post-war years, Belarus became one of the most prosperous parts of the USSR, but with independence came economic decline. President Lukashenko has steadfastly opposed the privatisation of state enterprises, and the country is heavily dependent on Russia for its energy supplies. President: Alexander LukashenkoAlexander Lukashenko, often referred to as Europe's last dictator, won a fifth term as president in October 2015, with no significant opposition candidate allowed to stand. But his next attempt at prolonging his rule was met with mass street protests in August 2020, demanding that he step down after an election that the opposition said was rigged.A former state farm director, Mr Lukashenko was first elected president in 1994, following his energetic performance as chairman of the parliamentary anti-corruption committee. He has managed a balancing act between Russia, his closest economic and political partner, and overtures to the West, while maintaining authoritarian rule at home.The EU, UK, USA and Canada have all imposed sanctions against Belarus because of political oppression, and further sanctions were imposed in 2022 following the country's role in the invasion of Ukraine.Belarus has been heavily criticised by rights bodies for suppressing free speech, muzzling the press and denying the opposition access to state media.TV is the main news source. National channels are state-controlled. Their main competitors are Russian networks. The internet is used by the opposition to make its voice heard. The government has sought to increase its online controls.Some key dates in the history of Belarus: 1918 - Towards the end of World War One, Belarus proclaims its independence as the Belarusian National Republic. 1919 - The Russian Red Army establishes communist rule in Belarus.1921 - The Treaty of Riga divides Belarus between Poland and Soviet Russia.1941-45 - Nazi Germany invades during the course of World War Two. More than one million people are killed during the occupation, including almost all of the country's large Jewish population.  1986 - Belarus is heavily affected by the fall-out from the nuclear explosion at Chernobyl in neighbouring Ukraine.1991 - Belarus declares independence as the Soviet Union breaks up. 1994 - Alexander Lukashenko elected president on a platform of fighting corruption and re-establishing close ties with Russia.2020 - President Lukashenko faces mass protests after the opposition says the presidential election was rigged in his favour.2022 February - Belarus allows its territory to be used by Russia's army to launch attacks into northern Ukraine as part of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.BBC Languages: BelarusBBC RussianPresidentUS governor commutes all of state's death sentencesThe man who led Morocco to brink of World Cup historyMorocco fans' heartbreak as Doha flights cancelledHow a British special forces raid went fatally wrongCovid wave batters China's overstretched hospitalsNuclear fusion breakthrough – what is it and how does it work?Audio drama - gaming's next frontier?Using my family's dark history to teach about vaccinesTwitter Files spark debate about ‘blacklisting’The silent struggles of ADHD workersUkraine’s missile graveyard 'is evidence against Russia’ VideoUkraine’s missile graveyard 'is evidence against Russia’Ten years after Sandy Hook, school gun deaths still riseThe French breakfast you don't knowThe rise of the remote helicopter bossThe underwater sounds that can kill© 2022 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.