The prime minister has announced new measures to deal with the large numbers of Albanian migrants who have been arriving in the UK and claiming asylum. They include putting UK border officials in Albania, which Rishi Sunak called a "safe, prosperous European country".There has been a rapid increase in the number of Albanian migrants crossing the English Channel:On 13 December, Mr Sunak said nearly 13,000 Albanians had arrived in the UK so far this year - a third of all those who have come in small boats. Many are single, adult men - the numbers represent around 1% of Albania's working age men, according to figures from Eurostat. "The rise has been exponential and we think that is in the main due to the fact that Albanian criminal gangs have gained a foothold in the north of France," Clandestine Channel Threat Commander Dan O'Mahoney told the Home Affairs Select Committee.In the 12 months to September 2022, 85% of Albanians who arrived by small boats - 7,219 people - submitted asylum applications.Only 50 of them (0.7%) have received an initial decision on their application and none of them were granted refugee status or another type of leave to remain.In general, 53% of claims by Albanians are accepted. Most are by women and children. The National Crime Agency (NCA) has said some Albanian migrants falsely claim to be victims of trafficking, using standard letters to apply for help. Albanians are the most commonly referred nationality for trafficking support in the UK. Other Albanian migrants simply disappear and work illegally in the UK, before returning home, according to Mr O'Mahoney.Albanians can apply to enter the UK with a visa for tourism, business or study.In the first nine months of 2022, the UK received 24,102 visa applications from Albanian citizens and granted 16,084 of them, according to Home Office figures - only 325 of them were work visas.In the first nine months of 2022, France processed more asylum applications from Albanians than the UK but rejected most of them. Germany and Greece were next, followed by the UK, which granted asylum at a significantly higher rate than the others except for the Republic of Ireland.One migration expert pointed out that some countries have been faster at making asylum decisions than the UK, pointing out: "in Q3 [July to September] this year, France made over 31,000 initial decisions. That's the same total as the last 7 quarters in the UK."EU countries appear to have been finding it difficult to return unsuccessful asylum-seekers to their countries of origin (according to this report from the European Commission), although there are no comparable statistics for this. In the 12 months to end of June 2022, a total of 888 Albanians were returned from the UK. Albanians represented the highest number of foreign offenders sent back in the year to September 2022. Mr Sunak has said he wants to increase the numbers returned to Albania by:On 7 December, Qirjako Qirko - the Albanian ambassador to the UK - told MPs that some Albanian migrants come to the UK to seek out business opportunities. He also claimed that some "pretended" to be victims of modern slavery. Speaking at the same committee of MPs, Balkans expert Andi Hoxhaj estimated that around 40% of people leave Albania for "economic opportunities". Three decades after the collapse of Enver Hoxha's dictatorship and the opening of Albania's borders, about 60% of the country's adult population wanted to leave, according to a Gallup poll published in December 2018. They cited corruption, low salaries, poor working conditions and a low quality of life as their main reasons.The median net annual household income in Albania was just €1,997 (£1,720) in 2018, according to the latest available figures from Eurostat,  while in the UK it was €21,464. Albanian's  youth unemployment (people aged 15-29) is 20%.Albania has applied for EU membership and negotiations for this opened in July 2022. Currently, Albanian citizens can enter the EU visa-free and stay for up to 90 days in any 180-day period as tourists - but they do not have an automatic right to work, study or live there. Briefing MPs about Albanian migrants, Mr O'Mahoney said: "There are undoubtedly people who need our help - but there is also a large number who are deliberately gaming the system."He went on to highlight the role of Albanian criminal gangs in the UK. The NCA says these gangs are responsible for importing industrial-scale cannabis farming to the UK and are also leading players in the UK's £5bn cocaine market.In 2017, an Albanian national was imprisoned after running a cocaine-smuggling operation worth an estimated £60m. There has been a rise in anonymous accounts on TikTok advertising transfers of people from Albania to the UK, according to a Balkan Insight report from August this year. The adverts offer to take people to the UK from France on boats or from Belgium in lorries, at a cost of £2,000-5,000 each.Last year, the Home Office launched an extension of its Prevent programme to divert at-risk Albanian teenagers from joining gangs trafficking people and cocaine to the UK.Albanians make up one of the largest foreign-national groups in prisons across England and Wales.Albanian prime minister Edi Rama has said in a tweet: "UK should fight the crime gangs of all nationalities and stop discriminating v Albanians to excuse policy failures." US governor commutes all of state's death sentencesThe man who led Morocco to brink of World Cup historyMorocco fans' heartbreak as Doha flights cancelledHow a British special forces raid went fatally wrongCovid wave batters China's overstretched hospitalsNuclear fusion breakthrough – what is it and how does it work?Audio drama - gaming's next frontier?Using my family's dark history to teach about vaccinesTwitter Files spark debate about ‘blacklisting’The silent struggles of ADHD workersUkraine’s missile graveyard 'is evidence against Russia’ VideoUkraine’s missile graveyard 'is evidence against Russia’Ten years after Sandy Hook, school gun deaths still riseThe French breakfast you don't knowThe rise of the remote helicopter bossThe underwater sounds that can kill© 2022 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.