Ireland emerged from the conflict that marked its birth as an independent state to become one of Europe's economic success stories in the final decade of the 20th Century.After the country joined the European Community in 1973, it was transformed from a largely agricultural society into a modern, high-technology economy.However, the economy collapsed following the 2008 global financial crisis. With the help of an international bailout, Ireland has been recovering once more.Its strong literary and musical traditions, as well as its long history of emigration, have given Ireland an international cultural presence disproportionate to its size.In 1921 the British government split the island into the mainly Protestant North and the mainly Catholic South, planning to keep both regions in the United Kingdom. However, the South seceded in 1922, while Northern Ireland opted to remain. Northern Ireland subsequently saw decades of violent conflict between those campaigning for a united Ireland, and those wishing to stay in the United Kingdom, until a communal power-sharing agreement came into force in 1999.President: Michael D HigginsMichael D Higgins, a veteran left-wing politician, poet and human rights activist was elected president in 2011. He ran for a second term as president of Ireland in 2018 and was re-elected in a landslide victoryHe is a former Galway university lecturer and published poet who has dedicated his four-decade political career to championing Irish culture and left-wing causes worldwide. He is an Irish speaker.The president wields little power beyond the ability to refer potentially unconstitutional legislation to the Supreme Court, but has an important symbolic role in representing Ireland at the national and international level.Prime minister (Taoiseach): Micheál MartinThe Fianna Fáil leader took over as head of a coalition government with traditional rival Fine Gael and the Green Party in June 2020, after closely-fought elections in February had put the resurgent left-wing Sinn Féin party in second place.A long ministerial career since the 1990s has supplied him with ample experience of economic and foreign affairs, and Martin's  initial priority was dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic.But the economic impact of the departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union, and the maintenance of the Good Friday peace accord in Northern Ireland have also been key considerations for his government.Fine Gael leader Leo Varadkar become deputy prime minister, and the two party leaders are due to swap places in December 2022. This is the first time the two main parties have served together in government.Public Raidio Teilifis Eireann (RTE) provides TV, radio and online services in English and Irish and is the main player in the broadcasting sector.Media outlets operate freely, although Reporters Without Borders has raised concerns about the impact of highly-concentrated media ownership.Some key dates in Ireland's history:1801 - Kingdom of Ireland annexed to Great Britain under the Act of Union. 1840s - Great potato famine: Ireland's staple crop fails, starving a million people to death and forcing millions more to flee abroad. 1916 - Nationalists stage Easter Rising, seizing the General Post Office in Dublin and proclaiming an independent Irish republic. The rising is militarily crushed by the British who execute its leaders. Irish public is outraged.1919 - Led by Eamonn De Valera, the nationalist movement Sinn Fein sets up a Dublin assembly, which again proclaims Irish independence. A guerrilla campaign by the Irish Republican Army, or IRA, against British forces begins with heavy casualties on both sides.1921 - Anglo-Irish Treaty establishes the Free State, an independent dominion of the British crown with full internal self-government rights, partitioned from Northern Ireland. Dissatisfaction with the treaty prompts the year-long Irish Civil War.  1949 - Independence. The Republic of Ireland leaves the British Commonwealth.1973 - Ireland joins the European Economic Community. Early 1980s - Ireland faces severe economic problems, with rising debt and unemployment.1990s - 2000s - Rapid economic growth earns Ireland reputation of "the Celtic Tiger". 2008 - Global financial crisis hits Ireland hard. In 2010 it agrees a bailout with the EU and IMF. EU takes on Apple, Ireland and USAmerica's new Irish immigrantsIreland: Before and after bailoutEurozone crisis: Ireland breaks freeIreland backs 'life-saving' abortionDivorcing the ChurchBBC Languages - IrelandComhaltas Irish cultural movementIrish Tourist BoardGovernment portalUS governor commutes all of state's death sentencesThe man who led Morocco to brink of World Cup historyMorocco fans' heartbreak as Doha flights cancelledHow a British special forces raid went fatally wrongCovid wave batters China's overstretched hospitalsNuclear fusion breakthrough – what is it and how does it work?Audio drama - gaming's next frontier?Using my family's dark history to teach about vaccinesTwitter Files spark debate about ‘blacklisting’The silent struggles of ADHD workersUkraine’s missile graveyard 'is evidence against Russia’ VideoUkraine’s missile graveyard 'is evidence against Russia’Ten years after Sandy Hook, school gun deaths still riseThe French breakfast you don't knowThe rise of the remote helicopter bossThe underwater sounds that can kill© 2022 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.