And we'll keep you signed in.Sign in  or  RegisterYou need one to watch live TV on any channel or device, and BBC programmes on iPlayer. It’s the law.  Alun JonesAll times stated are UKThe thirty fourth and final FMQs of
2022 comes to a close.Thanks for following - join us again
next year.The Senedd will once again be lit
tonight in the blue and yellow colours of Ukraine’s flag as a sign of
solidarity with Ukraine and its people.The first minister warns that universities face a "series of headwinds" as a result of Brexit.He explains, "we know that we will not be able to replace for Swansea University the £135 million which is the most conservative estimate of the benefits that they have derived from European funding in the last seven-year multiannual framework."He accuses the UK Government of having "comprehensively failed to deliver the absolute guarantee that we were offered, that Wales would not be a penny worse off."He criticises "the failure of the UK Government to reach an agreement over participation in the next iteration of the Horizon programme. Wales drew down a far greater proportion of funding out of Horizon than we would have been entitled to on a population-share basis, and Swansea University itself secured £18 million euros of EU funding with 51 different Horizon projects over the 2014 to 2020 period. Now there's nothing."Conservative Joel
James asks what benefits has the first minister's
trip to Qatar during the World Cup brought to Wales.The first minister replies that "the Welsh Government's presence at Qatar allowed us to amplify knowledge of Wales across the world and to speak up for the values that matter to us. Cultural and economic benefits will be among the products of that engagement."Mr Drakeford attended Wales' first game against
the USA on 21 November. His decision to go to the tournament was in
contrast to a boycott by UK Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer.Plaid Cymru leader Adam Price accuses the first minister of having a "for Wales see England" attitude to pay awards for health workers. Mr Price points out that last month the Scottish government tabled an improved deal averaging 7.5% to health workers threatening industrial action.It will see most NHS staff in Scotland get a rise of just over £2,200 a year.The first minister says that the Plaid Cymru leader "wants to take £120 million out of activity that the NHS in Wales is committed to undertake, and would use that money to pay people. That's a practical choice; our choice has had to be different because we see the enormous pressures that the NHS faces every single day."The nurses' strike planned for Wales will go ahead after the Royal College of Nursing (RCN) and Welsh Government failed to come to a pay agreement.Andrew RT Davies, leader of the Welsh
Conservatives in the Senedd, asks why Health Minister Eluned Morgan has not put forward an increase to the current pay award.The first minister says his government could not make an increased pay offer without extra funding from the UK government.Nurses in England and Northern Ireland will also be striking.Mr Davies says "I understand it is a difficult situation, I understand money is tight, but you constantly talk about wanting more powers. You have the powers over terms and conditions within the NHS. You have the levers financially to raise more revenue if you choose to do that."The first minister replies people in Wales were paying more tax than at any time in the last 70 years as a result of UK government decisions. Raising taxes still further was “an astonishing suggestion for him to make”, he tells Tory leader Mr Davies.  “Does he think for a moment that is a serious proposition to put to a government here in Wales?  “At a time when people cannot buy food and they cannot afford to pay for energy that we should take even more money out of their pockets than his government is taking already?  “That is not a choice a serious government would make here in Wales.”Even if taxes were hiked, it would not come “anywhere near” to raising enough money for pay deals that match the rate of inflation, Mr Drakeford adds.  Labour has a manifesto commitment to avoid income tax hikes in the aftermath of the pandemic, but ministers have not ruled out the idea when asked in the build up to Tuesday's budget.Conservative Janet Finch-Saunders refers to census results -  "55.2 per cent of people selected a Welsh-only identity in Wales in 2021, and that's a decrease from 57.5 per cent in 2011. Meanwhile, 18.5 per cent of people selected a British-only identity, which saw an increase from 16.9 per cent in 2011. However, the number of people selecting both Welsh and British identities also rose to 8.1 per cent in 2021, which was an increase from 7.1 per cent in 2011."She says "this does stand directly in contrast to your comments at the Welsh Affairs Committee, where you seemed to suggest that, somehow, British identity was on the decline and Welsh-only identity was increasing."The first minister replies that "the identity question in the census is a very interesting one, and the results that it shows, I think, are definitely worth proper exploration."He points out that the percentage of residents born outside of Wales has risen from 27.3% of the population (837,000) in 2011 to 29.1% (905,000) in 2021, which includes a rise of 23,000 of English-born residents.The Llywydd (presiding officer) Elin Jones
conducts a ballot to determine the names of members who may table questions to
the first minister and Welsh ministers. Each member may enter their name into a
ballot.Plaid Cymru MS Luke Fletcher asks how is the
Welsh Government working with local authorities to tackle the pressure on
homelessness prevention services over the Christmas period.First Minister Mark Drakeford says "the Welsh Government's commitment to ending homelessness remains unwavering at all times of the year. Our total investment in homelessness prevention and housing support is over £197 million this year, helping ensure no-one is left without the support or the accommodation they need."Hello and welcome
to our live coverage of the thirty fourth – and final - session of First
Minister's Questions in 2022.The meeting is held
in a hybrid format, with some members in the Siambr (Senedd chamber) and others
joining by video-conference.